# 1. Two Sum

https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/

---

### Read and understand the problem

An array of integer elements, where there can be repeated integer values, but two elements in that array add up to a target value, which is given to us. 

These two element's position in the given array should be returned as an 2 element array

---

### Approach towards the solution you want to code

#### Brute Force solution:

Just write down a loop that runs through every element, and a second loop which through every element after that.

Check every combination, for each element and the elements that come after that.

Code: tested in Python Tutor

```python
def TwoSum(nums, target):
    i = 0
    # loop 1 as explained in approach
    for num1 in nums:
        j = i+1    
        # loop 2 to check every element after the loop 1 element
        for num2 in nums[j:]:
            # checking condition
            if num1 + num2 == target:
                return [i,j]
            j += 1
        i += 1
    return None
    
nums = [2,7,11,15]
target = 9
ans = TwoSum(nums, target)
print(ans)

# all three testcases worked
# [3,2,4],[6,6] - target = 6
```

The solution coded is in O(n2)

---

Understanding solutions:

Concepts: **Hash maps/ Hashing/ Hash Table**

Basically, thought of another approach using an array of arrays, where each element is a 2 element array, with the current value and its index. 

For example: 

```python
nums = [2,7,11,15]
new_nums = [[2,0],[7,1],[11,2],[15,3]]
#Even in this approach, nothing changes, we still have to go through every element to check for the target's complement.
```

My thought process here was to use the indexing to come out with a fast search through solution to find the elements.

So, I had to take a look at the solutions, and understand what the approaches were, concept of hashing is close to the thought process I came up with. 

### Hashing

learning resource: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15469795/why-hashmap-lookup-is-o1-i-e-constant-time

I can vaguely explain how a hash table works ? and why hash tables support lookup very efficiently. 

Hash tables have a key - pair values which are in certain buckets (an internalized array concept which can be accessed using a hash code), these hash codes are generated using a hash function.

Initially while setting up the hash table, Hash function is applied on the key to get a particular hash code, which can be used directly to access an array element(bucket). So, this reversing the same concept, while accessing the elements, this hash code can be directly used to access the value when a key is given to us in almost linear time. Because, when a key is given to us, we can apply the hash function in linear time, and find the hash code for a particular key and find the value form the bucket.

Technically, it is not linear, in worst case scenario(there can be collisions in a bucket) it can take up to O(n) as well. But on an average, the time complexity is linear O(1). 

It uses both the concepts of arrays and linked list, arrays are used for buckets as their elements, and the internally key pair values are stored as linked lists to access them via the keys given to us.

Yet to do: 

- [x] How to implement a hash map

- [x] Code hash map solution for the problem

#### Implement a hash map:

ref: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72234504/twosums-code-python-locating-indexes-of-sum-values

In python, we use dictionary(a key value pair collection) to implement a hash map and use it.

```python
# To define a dictionary:
hash_map = {}
# To add a key value pair into the dictionary:
hash_map[n] = i
# For this particular example we need to get the index i if we are given a target
```

```hash_map[n] = i``` simply adds a pair ```n:i``` to the hash_map(dictionary), in case if there already exists a pair that is mapped to ```n:another_i```, this pair will be overwritten by  ```n:i```.

Expression `diff in prevMap` returns `True` if there is a key `diff` in `prevMap`. If it is, it means that there is a number in `nums` which sums up to `target` with `n` and we can get its index by typing `prevMap[diff]`.

### Solution using hash map:

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        # initiate an empty hashmap
        hashMap = {}
        i =0
        # go through the elements
        for num in nums:
            diff = target - num
            # check if there is a sum for target
            if diff in hashMap:
                # if so return both the indices of the diff and num in this stage
                return [hashMap[diff], i]
            # add key value pairs to the hashmap
            hashMap[num] = i
            i += 1
```

The approach I took was to using a data structure to easily identify how to find the elements that add up to the target sum. 

The data structure used is a hash map, in python a dictionary to use each elements as a key pair value. That way to find out the element in hash map almost takes constant time, so to check through all the array elements can be done in almost O(n) time complexity.

### Sorting Solution:

ref: https://www.interviewkickstart.com/problems/two-sum-ii-input-array-is-sorted

We can sort the array, and then use left and right pointers to find out the target, kind of similar to the idea of binary search. This solution was out of discussions of the problem, I didn't have any idea on how to do this, but I'm trying to understand and learn approaches.

Initially, even if sorted we shouldn't lose the indexes of the original array as we need to return them, so we can form an array of arrays, where each one of the elements have the values along with their index.

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        i = 0
        # array of arrays with element value and original index
        arr = [[]]
        for num in nums:
            if i==0:
                arr[i] = [num, i]
            else:
                arr.append([num, i])
            i += 1
        # sorting of array 
        arr.sort()
        left = 0
        right = i-1
        # left and right pointers to understand the position of the target value
        while left<right:
            # working through until target is found
            if arr[left][0] + arr[right][0] == target:
                return [arr[left][1],arr[right][1]]
            elif arr[left][0] + arr[right][0] < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
```



---

Remaining To-do's:

- [ ] Read binary search and hashing chapters. (Grokking algorithms), and write down both of the concepts in your own words. just a paragraph each.
- [ ] Repeat all 3 approaches and work on writing them again.
  - [ ] work tomorrow on the problem 5x 
    - [ ] write the solution in files on notepad++

  - [ ] final blog post on the problem 


---